if you look at all of the studies on
meditation basically the ones that show
a clinically significant change do a
practice for three at least three days a
week 20 minutes a day for eight weeks so
when I'm treating someone with
depression or anxiety I tell them if you
want to see a substantial benefit to
your depression let's say what you would
get from an antidepressant or
anti-anxiety medication it's gonna take
eight weeks of practice for three days a
week at a minimum for 20 minutes so I'd
say that you should practice for you
know I'd say give it two months where
you're practicing three to five days a
week that being said I've found a lot of
value like some people feel great after
like three minutes of meditation so I
think a lot of the confusion around
meditation when they say how long does
it take to be effective it depends on
what you're doing right there are
different kinds of meditation and if
you're not doing the right kind of
meditation technique it's not gonna feel
effective so the problem isn't that
you're not doing it long enough it's
that you're doing the wrong thing and so
it's kind of like asking someone like
how long does it take to get good at
falling asleep well it sort of depends
on how you're falling asleep fact are
you drinking caffeine before you fall
asleep because for some people that
doesn't matter and for some people it
matters a lot
are you sleeping a room with no noise or
a lot of noise because some people like
sleeping with the TV on some people have
to sleep in absolute quiet
are you sleeping under the covers or do
you like to have like a cold room and
under under blankets that's what I like
I like sleeping in a cold room with a
bunch of blankets other people like
sleeping in a warm room with a thin
sheet people have different ways to
sleep and so different meditation
techniques are important because like
you have to do one that fits your
cognitive in your neuroscience
fingerprint the reason there are
different kinds of meditation techniques
is because our minds are different our
brains are different and to calm the
mind requires a different technique for
a different kind of mind
and so yeah so someone's saying I get
really frustrated angry with meditation
is that normal sure so my guess is that
the reason that you're getting
frustrated and angry with meditation is
because it's not doing what you expect
it to do which in turn is the problem
because as long as you hold on to an
expectation met you're not going to
enter a meditative state so like it's
absolutely frustrating right like yeah
because you're holding on to an
expectation the expectation prevents you
from attaining the state of
consciousness that meditation is which
in turn frustrates you and it's because
you're expecting so the way for bigger
b-12 meditate is for someone to teach
him a practice and then tell him it's
not don't tell him it's meditation it'll
work he just has to know that he's not
he's know for him to meditate
successfully he just has to know like
get tricked into meditating so I'd say
that a good a good technique for bigger
be one is so I I'll show you guys one
technique for people who were frustrated
with meditation okay then we'll do
something to help with depression and
anxiety and help gizmo out calm down
your sympathetic nervous system so this
is what I want you guys to do close your
eyes and listen to the sound of your
breath
listen to the sound of your breath so
your breath has noise it has a sound you
should be able to hear something if you
want to you can put your ear fingers in
your ears and then listen
you
then what I want you guys to do is try
to spell the sound of your breath
so understand that like all sounds can
be spelled phonetically like it's not
going to be a perfect to process
approximation but what are the sounds
how would you spell the sound of the
breath
you
so we would for example like the the
noise that a cat makes we spell Meo w
the sound that dog makes we spell wo Oh
F
and so how would you spell the sound of
the breath
okay so now everyone's just typing out
random [ __ ] that's a great place to
start so then the question becomes I
want you guys to refine it further and
go deeper
he's the sound of inhalation different
from the sound of exhalation
you
right so then what are those two sounds
so now what I want you guys to realize
is that chances are this is gonna be
hard to understand but the more you
listen to it the more you're gonna be
able to refine the sound you guys are
tossing out an answer because that's
your first impression but the closer
that you listen like just look at what
everyone's typing they're like a lot of
different dimensions that people are
covering some people are using Ages some
people are using s some people are using
multiple vowels some people are using
one vowel
there there there Em's there's so like
just listen and try to see if anything
that I don't want is typed in twitch
chat
can you hear their sound
you
okay so now what I want you guys to do
is stop typing in twitch chat
close your eyes and just listen
you
okay now I'm gonna teach you guys have
we done Darth Vader breath yet haha
what's the right answer you guys do it
for a month and then get back to me
right so do it for a month and see like
do it every day for one month and see if
you understand
so like understanding the sound of the
breath is is like expanding your palate
right like the more you train your
palate the more you'll be able to detect
and so the more you listen the more
you'll get like it's like you know what
if you have an unsophisticated palate
and someone feeds you something you eat
and you're like yeah that was delicious
that's true guys are doing you're like
this is delicious this is the sound so
understand it deeper listen to it really
listen to it and then once you feel like
after you do one week of this practice
the second step is to see or listen
where do you hear the sound of the
breath in the external world the sound
of the breath is present in other places
can you find out where where do you hear
it it's not just the sound of the breath
it exists and other things is to go
looking for it but in order to find the
sound of the breath you really have to
understand what it looks like Oh what
it's what it sounds like you really have
to be able to detect it and understand
it well within yourself before you are
able to find it in other places yes
ocarina okay so now I'm gonna teach you
guys Darth Vader breathing technique
okay and it's hard to describe like how
to do this technique except to breathe
like Darth Vader so this this technique
is called ujjayi pranayama and what it
is it involves contraction I would say
do it for three to five minutes at a
time so it involves contraction of the
throat in a way that produces this sound
and if you guys want to know how to
understand that with the throat with the
throat so if you want to know how to
make that sound you have to breathe like
Darth Vader right so you go like this so
when you do when you when you make the
Darth Vader sound you're gonna when you
tell you when your mind tells you to
breathe like Darth Vader it's gonna
automatically contract something in your
throat that's what you want to contract
so take a snapshot of how Darth Vader
breathing what it does to your throat
and then do that to your throat and then
breathe normally with that contraction
okay and then close your eyes close your
eyes and practice we're going to
practice for three minutes
you
go ahead and finish the breath that
you're on
let your eyes remain closed
yes
sit with the person
you
okay
go ahead and let yourself come back
so thank you all for coming thank you
for listening and participating
and
go ahead and wrap up for the day if
anyone has a suggestion for who to raid
we'll do that so I think just to kind of
recap you know the today's stream was
about a little bit about lupus a little
bit about anxiety a little bit about how
to change our diet and to sort of
optimize our health what's what what
helps with inflammation but also how do
an act simple behavioral changes how is
it like sure we should eat certain
things but how do we go about eating
those things a little bit about the
origins of anxiety and a little bit
about meditation